--------------

Copyright (c) 1987-1993 by BBN Systems and Technologies,
A Division of Bolt, Beranek and Newman Inc.
All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
documentation is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice of BBN Systems and Technologies, this paragraph and the
one following appear in all copies and in supporting documentation, and
that the name Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc. not be used in advertising or
publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
written prior permission. Any distribution of this software or derivative
works must comply with all applicable United States export control laws.

BBN makes no representation about the suitability of this software for any
purposes.  It is provided "AS IS", without express or implied warranties
including (but not limited to) all implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness for a particular purpose, and notwithstanding any other
provision contained herein.  In no event shall BBN be liable for any
special, indirect or consequential damages whatsoever resulting from loss
of use, data or profits, whether in an action of contract, negligence or
other tortuous action, arising out of or in connection with the use or
performance of this software, even if BBN Systems and Technologies is
advised of the possiblity of such damages.

--------------

Scigraph Scientific Graphing Package

Scigraph is a an object-oriented library for doing x-vs-y plots.  It can be
embedded in other applications.  Scigraph's functionality includes scatter
plots, linear plots, bar charts, contour plots, and symbolic equations.
Scatter, linear, and bar plots are fast and reliable.  It runs in Dynamic
Windows and every version of CLIM under Symbolics, Allegro, Lucid, and MCL.
Graphs and data points are mouse-sensitive.  You may either interactively
or programmatically control zooming, annotating, setting colors and
symbols, and the usual features you would expect.

Scigraph is available via anonymous ftp from cambridge.apple.com
in the directory pub/clim/clim-1-and-2/scigraph.

There are three subdirectories to this directory, scigraph, dwim, and
contrib.

Scigraph, contains the main body of the source code.  This source code
looks a lot like dynamic windows because that is where the system grew up.
Documentation for scigraph, including how to compile and load it, is in
scigraph/scigraph.doc.

Dwim, contains a set of utilities for scigraph that make the various lisps
compatible and make every version of CLIM look like dynamic windows.  DWIM
can be thought of as a thin layer of syntax that buffers Scigraph from the
winds of CLIM change.

Contrib, is where users may contribute patches and extensions to Scigraph.
We may periodically peek in this directory to merge contributions into the
main source code.

There is also a compressed tar file, scigraph.tar.Z, containing a copy of
the above files.

Questions and comments should be addressed to the authors.

Jeff Morrill (jmorrill@bbn.com)
Ken Anderson (kanderson@bbn.com)

---

McCLIM distribution doesn't seem to have scigraph.doc file. Mr. Rainer
Joswig was kind enough to share the documentation he had which is now
available at the following url:

https://common-lisp.net/project/mcclim/static/files/scigraph.zip
